It's 9:00 a.m. here in Shanghai,
Shenzhen, and Hong Kong. You're watching
the China Show. I'm Annabelle Drooers
with David and Glenn.
>> Uh we're counting down to the open of
Greater China Markets. Uh let's get to
your top stories today and an update out
of Hong Kong and the big fire. Of
course, Hong Kong firefighters are close
to [music] completing their search of
burnt out apartment towers after the
city's [music] worst disaster in decades
claims at least 94 lives.
>> We have a cautious star for trading in
Asia. That's as a sharp rebound in
global stocks over the past week begins
to stall. Chinese shares in focus after
an upgrade from JP Morgan.
>> Also ahead, an update on China Vanc's
debt [music] problems with two big local
banks said to have rejected its
requested [music] or its request for a
short-term loan.
>> And mtoan expected to report its first
loss in nearly [music] 3 years. That's
as China's food delivery price wars
intensify.
>> [music]
>> Hong Kong firefighters say they're close
to completing their search of seven
burntout apartment towers. That's after
fires now known to have killed at least
94 people. Dozens of survivors remain in
hospital with hundreds more left
homeless as a criminal investigation
continues into the cause of the
disaster. Our China correspondent Min Lo
joins us now and Min, you're back on the
scene for us this morning and give us an
update exactly what's happening there on
the ground. It seems like yes that that
fire is now being contained, but but
what's next exactly?
Yes, I am quite close to the scene of
the fire and actually you can still see
a little bit of smoke coming out from
one of the buildings, but the fire
authorities did say overnight that they
would have everything under control by
this morning and by 9:00 a.m. they would
have done forcible entry into every
single unit to ensure that there are no
residents that are left behind. So yes,
the latest death toll stands at 94.
Unknown number of people that are still
missing. And as of yesterday morning, it
was in the hundreds. Uh, and the Hong
Kong Chief Executive, John Lee, was here
yesterday, and he said that every family
will receive $10,000 Hong Kong dollars
in compensation. That is just about
$1,300,
which is quite little considering the
anonymity of the laws and also
considering the high cost of living in
Hong Kong. It's probably enough for just
a month's rent, but many of these
residents have lost everything. I am
close to one of the evacuation centers.
There are nine of these shelters nearby
which the government has said will be
kept open as long as there are residents
that need it. But longer term, they have
identified about 1,800 empty apartment
units that could serve as transitional
housing. But aside from the shelters,
there are also some hotels that are
participating in providing free rooms
for the next two weeks just to help some
of these residents tight through. But
just now I was walking through one of
the market centers here and I did see
residents just sleeping on mattresses uh
along the mall corridors uh and just
looking quite dazed really. I was
talking to one man and I was asking him
what his plan is and he said he's hoping
to go home tonight um which doesn't seem
to be very realistic and another person
told me that she just has no idea.
They're just taking it one day at a time
and there are young kids as well.
Parents with families sleeping in tents
here uh in the market area.
>> Min, if you could talk a little bit more
about relief efforts. I know you
mentioned some of the amounts the
government has pledged. We've heard and
read a lot about how uh a lot of members
in the private sector have responded and
what they're pledging and what they're
doing. You know, anecdotally, of course,
we've all heard about, you know,
volunteers, people needing to be turned
away, in fact, because of all the
efforts and everyone that's showing up
there. Give us a sense really, is there
a sense of order that's taking place?
>> Yes, I was walking through one of the
evacuation centers and I actually did
saw uh did see a sign outside that says
they are rejecting further donations.
So, it seems like they have enough to
handle at the moment. They have enough
items and it's very heartening to see
over here. I'll show you later on, but
there is a center, a distribution center
for goods where you can get everything
from water and food to your daily
necessities, mats, blankets, everything
you need to just sleep over uh
comfortably for the night. And it's
entirely self-organized. It's not
government organized. It's just random
sort of volunteers from the residential
units nearby that just set everything up
here. There is also a medical tent to
help those in need as well. And yes,
some big companies are donating
including many Chinese tech giants, the
likes of Xiaomi, Xpong, Tencent, all
making sizable donations. Of course, the
local jockey club as well uh making a
big donation as well.
And also I should mention by the way
that the Hong Kong government has set up
a 300 million uh Hong Kong dollar
special fund as well to help the
victims.
What I find quite sad about all of this
as well is that authorities had actually
inspected this site several times and
even as recently as last week had warned
the contractor about the fire hazard. So
what is the latest that we've heard in
terms of the investigations that are
proceeding?
Yeah, I think this is a sore point for
many residents and one of the most
frustrating things to listen to when you
are at the press conference yesterday is
yes, they're talking about the financial
aid aid, but there just doesn't seem to
be enough focus on the source and the
cause of this fire and the Labor
Department said that they did visit the
site of the renovation as recently as
last week and they already noticed those
substandard materials. So, why wasn't
there any changes made? you know who
should be accountable for this. Those
answers remain uh you know unanswered
and there is a task force that has been
set up to investigate corruption. So
that suggests the authorities perhaps
suspect some level of irregularities
whether it's from the contracting
process or oversight process and there
are concerns as well because this
company the the the company in question
or three people has been arrested but
that company is still responsible for 11
other resident residential projects in
Hong Kong. Um and so obviously there is
a lot of concern around safety. The
chief executive John Lee has ordered an
inspection of all renovation projects in
Hong Kong. He has also said that he
wants to phase out bamboo scaffolding in
Hong Kong as well. That's a step up from
the previous stance back in March when
the government said that 50% of public
works will need to change their bamboo
scaffolding to metal ones. But people
are really upset. Some are saying that
this is diverting attention from the
crux of the issue because they are
saying that it's not just the bamboo.
It's all the other materials that
shouldn't be there that didn't didn't
meet compliance standards, including the
green mesh that were not fire resistant,
the plastic topins, the styrofoam which
is extremely flammable. And some are
pointing to how if you can see behind
me, you can see the areas where the
green mesh are is completely burnt off
and yet you ste you still see the bamboo
scaffolding uh intact. And people are
pointing that to that as a reason to say
that it's not the bamboo that's the
culprit. And there are some Hong Kong
residents that are very saddened that
this intangible heritage that Hong Kong
has is going to be lost and is not
necessarily the the real crux of the
matter here.
>> Min, thank you. Min low there. Our China
correspondent
uh back on site there. Right. Uh coming
up here on on shows, we'll get into the
thick of things here. We're joined by
Hong Kong Ledge Co. Member Regina EP
will be joining us in a couple of
minutes to take us through of course how
what she makes of the government
responds so far and what really to
expect in terms of changes ahead um as
of course the disaster may no let me
rephrase that is spurring calls for
change around the city's [music] housing
regulations. This is the China show,
right? Uh [music] just looking at
markets, it's generally been a quiet
last few days. Obviously the holiday in
the US. Uh commentary though coming
through out of Goldman just the um
expectation or the likelihood of a
broadening broadening out of the rally
beyond the US markets and certainly the
other part to that conversation is
within the US markets we've seen a
rethinking and of course um how the AI
play has changed. Alphabet of course has
been has come back in a very big way. uh
along that conversation. A50 futures are
pointing to some gains. Just to mention
too, Mwtoan is coming out with earnings
today. Something to watch going into the
session. Um special spotlight on Korea
today and you'll see why very very
shortly. the Cosby is going the opposite
way of the Cause which is going
completely the opposite way and then
some more uh on the back of let's just
put it efforts and incentives
uh to uh encourage retail uh perhaps uh
retail investors there. We're up 3% on
that. Dollar Korea on the back of I
think we're 24 hours from the uh BOK
decision on the stronger side. So we are
weaker on the one. Uh and speaking of
currencies, uh dollar China 707. Uh
nothing much here. The 10-year yield, we
are on track. I think it's for two weeks
of fairly strong gains on on the
Treasury space. Really on the back of
the repricing around the Fed uh come
December.
>> Yeah, absolutely. We've now got odds of
up to 90%. So that that uh decision is
not looking quite as live as it was just
a couple of weeks ago. But in terms of
what we're watching in greater China
ahead of the open, well, you mentioned
that that yuan level you're seeing
there. Of course, that big watch. Can we
hit back down to that seven mark? Uh in
terms of the sectors in focus, most
definitely. We're going to be keeping a
very close watch on China. As you said,
that big headline yesterday was that
their loan request looks to have been
rejected by at least two banks.
>> Uh so of course in terms of the the
sectors, the financial, but also the
property one to watch. Earnings and
company specific you mentioned mtoan
really can't go past those numbers today
because we already had Alibaba JD
reporting as well. that big sense of how
acute is the food price delivery war
looking in China. We are expecting the
first loss for mtoan uh going back to
2022. Macau occupancy rate for the
hotels. We'll be watching those numbers
when they drop later this afternoon. We
did last see it sitting around 85% but
of course that's a holiday season and
overnight highore as well. You're also
watching that one.
>> Yeah. So might be month end might have
to do with other factors but it was
quite a spike in highore yesterday. I
think it was the biggest single day jump
uh on a net basis point basis going back
to I think 2023 late 2023. Uh let's get
a sense of markets right now where we
are. It's been a generally a stable uh
stable week across equity markets the
last 48 hours or so. Not a lot of price
action not a lot of volume too. Uh
joining us here on set, Jason Louie,
head of APAC equity and derivative
strategy at BNP uh Parba. Good morning.
Nice to see you.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> What's what's top of mind for you this
week?
>> I think there are a couple things we can
highlight. You mentioning earlier the
segment about the rally broading out
beyond the US. I think in this part of
the world, I think certainly we are
looking closely at China and Japan.
>> Uh if we look at China for example, um
from an economic standpoint, the data
has been decelerating uh over the past
few months. Now the good news is that we
have a strong foundation of the first
half. So if the governments continue to
provide targeted measure it is still
possible to meet that annual target
which was reiterated at the fourth
plenum. And so which is why we have seen
recently you're starting to hear a
little bit more announcement coming out.
So for example two days ago you have
this joint announcement from a variety
of ministry trying to boost the
consumption.
>> Yes. And when you look at the measures,
it is still relatively targeted. I think
at this moment the Chinese policy makers
are not necessarily willing to go for
these big ban stimulus yet because they
still want to observe how the other part
of the economy are recovering.
>> And out of those policy, I think one
that we are watching closely is that if
you look at this year, one of the most
successful policy has been the consumer
trading program where uh a lot of the
local consumer are willing to buy some
new electronic products or EVs. So that
program is getting close towards the end
of this year and whether or not that
will be renewal and more importantly
whether or not the scope will be
expanded can also give us some guidance
about what the trajectory could be for
next year and I think we may get some
hint of that with the central economic
work conference that will be happening
in the next one or two weeks.
>> Yeah, that could be the next catalyst.
What do you think the market reaction
could be uh on the subsidy if in fact we
that is let's put it discontinued. Yeah,
I think at this point our base case is
that given the success of these uh
trading program and that immediate boost
to spending, it is likely that the
policy maker will consider extending it.
I think the question mark is the scope
>> and the items that are eligible because
they have been tinkering with the scope
depending on the uh regional versus the
central subsidies. So I think certainly
that's something we are monitoring
closely
>> with this conference as well. we're
going to get the policy priorities for
next year and we could get some more
updates on their their ambitions around
tech and maybe the infrastructure build
out to support that. What are you
anticipating there and also how does it
sort of feed into that bigger focus we
see now on on on valuations and ROI?
>> Yeah, I think we probably got a hint of
that from the fourth plenum when they
announced this blueprint for the next uh
five-year plan. So I think a lot of that
focus will be a continuation of we have
seen for the better part of the last two
years. I think tech and self-sufficiency
will still be a very high priority. But
so far when we look at some of the uh
earnings from the Chinese tech company
recently I think they have been quite
disciplined in terms of their uh vision
about the tax spending and that is quite
different than some of the commentary we
are hearing from the US. So I think
inherently you are seeing on the private
sector that they are taking a slightly
different uh approach but of course that
will have an implication on the equity
market because previously I think
investor were hoping for more uh upbeat
or more uh uh ambitious guidance coming
from some of these companies. So for the
past month or two you notice that the
Hong Kong China space especially tech
related names uh may be a little bit
under pressure while the North Asia
market like Japan, Korea, Taiwan seems
to be taking the lead. And do you see
that becoming maybe a little bit more
acute going into next year? Because I
think to your point around around
spending I mean you're not seeing again
it's a sort of similar story across
China and exchina is around perhaps low
ROI compared to capex spend. But if you
look at the capex spend of a company
like Alibaba for instance even in low
billions on a quarterly basis versus you
get the tens of billions for the likes
of open AAI or Oracle etc.
How much more does that become sort of
the narrative for 2026 do you think?
>> Yeah, I think for 2026 there will
definitely be a lot more focus on the
sustainability of those type of
spending. Uh what we have noticed so far
at least based on the earnings
conference call and the earnings result.
the Chinese tech companies seems to be
uh quite focused on that early stage
adoption and monetization. Yeah. Which
is when we look at some of the American
peers perhaps they're still focusing
more on having the best frontier model
and depending on your business model
maybe one is better to monetize that
than the other.
>> Uh and to your point about kind of
broadening out or that divergence this
is certainly our view uh as well. So
when we look at AI investment in Asia as
a whole uh when we look at like a market
level it is actually quite interesting
because each market offers something
slightly different. uh in Japan for
example they're mostly equipment makers
that are more sensitive to future
contracts. Uh if you look at markets
like Korea and Taiwan there are
foundaries memory chips maker that
actually benefit from both future
contract and the immediate price jump.
So that recent jump in memory price is
actually gives you an immediate boost to
earnings which is quite different than
perhaps what you may see in markets like
Japan as a whole. Should we start to
distinguish between I guess just to get
more granular in that between Korea and
Taiwan because within recently we've
seen in Korea a rotation there Kore
Taiwan has been almost I wouldn't say
sold off but it's certainly
underperformed quite clearly it its peer
in Korea. Yeah, I think uh the kind of
rotation I will probably bring in Japan
as well because what we've noticed is
that when you look at the supply chain
on the AI side, these three markets are
highly integrated and they kind of take
different responsibility about around
that chain and of course in Japan you
have that one company that are very very
involved in the entire AI investment
cycle uh as well. So what we have
noticed is that within Korea and Taiwan,
Korea for example, there's a lot of
intra rotation. So switching from a
memory company to another memory company
whereas for Taiwan what we have noticed
is that from a foreign float perspective
the kind of de uh risking actually
happened earlier. So we actually have
seen foreign investors taking profit on
the foundry stocks as early as October
whereas a lot of the move in Japan
actually happened quite recently
especially since the early November. So
I think our feeling is that as investor
continue to evaluate which part of that
AI ecosystem they want to concentrate
their investment in that naturally leads
into a lot more rotation for those three
markets.
>> Moving beyond tech because we have had a
couple of guests this week and I think
Morgan Stanley for instance is one of
those that's looking for next year. The
US economy is held up maybe better than
expected. that could set the stage for
for the the economy also to improve in
Asia next year and broad and beyond tech
exports. Is there any particular sector
that you're watching beyond the tech
story?
>> Sure. I think the major one will
certainly be the consumption side of
things in China because this year while
the broader market has done quite well
if you look at the drivers of this rally
it has been a lot of high dividend
yielding stocks and there's been a lot
of the tech stocks especially when it
comes to the Hong Kong market
>> barbell strategy.
>> Exactly. uh which is something that we
have been uh kind of advocating as well.
But when you look at the consumption
side which is the core of that uh growth
driver, it still remain a little bit
uncertain which goes back to our earlier
point about the uh broadening out of
that consumer subsidies whether or not
it can stimulate and create a positive
feedback loop. I think this is one area
that for next year is certainly
something that we're watching closely
and to your point about US it's also
interesting that you you mentioned it as
well right that expectation of Fed swing
around so fast that it's almost like
we've come gone through the entire c
full circle in about 3 weeks or so I
think investor will continue to monitor
because depending on the tone of uh
chair pow in the upcoming meeting
perhaps they may reset their expectation
as well and on top of that President
Trump is expected to make an
announcement of the new Fed chair so
there could be some kind of an
interaction in terms of what the current
chair is planning versus what the market
would like to anticipate uh for the next
year. You know, that's interesting. We
the fact that we almost went full circle
on the Fed conversation, right? We went
from a hold, you know, the only thing
that was lacking were price for for a
hike, in fact. So, on that very not, I
two two-part question for you. So,
Bitcoin as a proxy
>> um collapsed to about 80,000. We're back
about 90,000. People pointed to that and
said, "Hey, there's underlying market
mechanics don't seem to be conducive to
risk liquidity issues." Do you think
what do you think the liquidity
conditions will be next year as far as
market assumptions because that seems to
be like the the base of this recipe.
>> Yeah, I think your point about liquidity
is very important because we actually
have heard uh various Fed officials also
commenting on some of the underlying
mechanics regarding the liquidity. I
think our view is that there will be
some kind of balance sheet adjustment in
the US in order to provide that kind of
stop gap solution for this liquidity
situation. uh but more importantly I
think for the equity market uh it's more
about the expectation of the new Fed
chair and how he or she will uh try to
work together with the rest of the board
to implement some of those rate cut
expectation that the market is currently
thinking
>> Jason thanks for joining us this morning
that was uh Jason Louie there head of
APAC equity and derivatives strategy at
BMP Parabar and leaving you here with a
look at how Hong Kong markets are
shaping up into the session this morning
you've got the yuan reference rate as
the as well there at the bottom of your
screen But watching the yuan of course
and [music] watching as well equities
although we do have that Thanksgiving
holiday liquidity overall is [music]
going to be probably pretty thin. We'll
have more ahead. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
U this one actually just crossing uh so
this is a let's call it a daily [music]
fix. Well, the latest update was as of
about 10 minutes or so back. The repo
rate uh this is the overnight level
rightmost side. As you can see, it's now
fallen uh to just below 1.3 which
effectively puts it now at the lowest in
about 2 years or so. We'll track this.
The opposite of course on a at least on
a principal basis was uh high in Hong
Kong. We can get to that later because
we we did see a big spike on that
specific one. Markets equity markets are
called higher going into the open today.
>> Yeah, that's right. We're going to see I
would still say we'll see some thin
trading just based off the fact we're
coming off the the Thanksgiving holiday
in the US. So you expect sort of lower
trading volumes across Asia in the
session today with people taking
advantage of that possible for or
possible long weekend but still you are
just seeing some modest upside here this
morning. Some of the spec specific
sectors we're going to be watching
rather uh China gaming is going to be a
watch for us because we did see China
approving six imported online games over
November. So that was 178 uh domestic
online games as well. So an increase
from the month prior China Vanka shares
given we saw that huge slump in the
session yesterday and we continue to
have more reporting around uh their loan
request. The latest on that is that it's
been rejected by at least two Chinese
banks. It is trying to secure a
short-term loan. But certainly these
default fears for the company continue
to build. So that one is very much a
watch and also keeping an eye on typing
insurance. Uh this is a name that's
exposed to to the Hong Kong fire
situation. [music] We did see that name
dropping again in the session on
Thursday, but we are of course
continuing to monitor the the continued
[music]
uh fire efforts. We have uh essentially
rescue efforts ongoing in that. More
ahead.
[music]
You're watching the China show and yeah,
we are just going into the Friday
session here, 40 seconds away.
Um, lots to talk to you about as [music]
it pertains to economics and markets,
but there's just really one thing in my
mind specifically. It's been a terrible
week uh here in [music] Hong Kong. We'll
get you the latest of course and what's
going on in Taipo. Of course, Minor
China correspondent is there on the
ground. [music] Uh, we're almost 48
hours uh from the initial [music]
reports of course of the fire mid
afternoon on Wednesday. Uh the death
toll has gone up. Uh we've seen of
[music] course a lot of we've heard from
John Lee of course uh overnight uh we've
heard from fire officials investigations
are ongoing relief efforts support
[music] measures the public and the
private sector have all responded to
this quite uh quite rapidly uh but yes
we're going to be here not just over the
weekend we're going to be here for weeks
if not months. Yeah, absolutely. Uh
definitely those investigations as you
said ongoing and and trying to
understand exactly what sparked the
initial blaze. But let's take a look at
what's happening with markets also
coming online this morning because we
are just seeing them a little steady
which you again might expect as we were
mentioning. It is the Thanksgiving
holiday in the US that does have a big
bearing on liquidity in this region as
well. But there has been a call this
morning that's that's getting quite a
lot of views and that's JP Morgan
turning more bullish on Chinese
equities. They've actually shifted their
recommendation to overweight and they're
looking at the prospect of large gains
for next year and that does actually
outweigh any risk that they see for
losses as well. But they're looking at
factors like AI adoption, consumption
measures, governance reforms. These are
all different reasons they're saying
that could actually lead to another leg
higher. So that's the the the mainland
market as we come on today. Let's take a
look at what's happening in Hong Kong as
well.
>> Uh given that there's going to be a
couple of different stocks we're going
to track very closely. There's one in
particular of course and that is Mtoan
that's that's uh set to report its
results later today. We could actually
end up seeing the first loss for the
business going back to 2022 and that is
as we see very intense uh price
competition between Mtoan Alibaba and
also JD. Alibaba another name to watch
because we actually did just see them
releasing overnight but their first
self-developed AI glasses. So it is an
interesting move for the company going
into wearables and I think it points
back to that bigger question around
monetization of AI and this is a clearly
a new direction or a new theme for for
Alibaba and where they're taking this as
well.
>> Right, let's get back to our top story
here in Hong Kong. Firefighters say they
are close to completing their search of
seven burntout apartment towers as a
criminal investigation continues into
the cause of the disaster. Minmanlow is
on the ground for us. He's back on site.
amendment. A lot of focus uh on the
bamboo scaffolding. What can you tell us
about where that conversation is as we
speak?
>> Yeah, it's a controversial issue because
Hong Kong Chief Executive John Lee has
said Hong Kong will now start to phase
out bamboo scaffolding. It's now being
blamed as the main culprit of this fire
because obviously the scaffolding caught
fire. The authorities said that the
spread of the fire was very unusual
especially uh with the green mesh as
well. They also found flammable
materials like styrofoam boards covering
the windows, topollen sheets and these
are things that shouldn't be there and
they found them on many floors and so
there were non-compliant materials and
that's why a criminal investigation is
gone ongoing with that engineering
company and several uh three men has
already been arrested. So this is a
public safety issue. is an issue of
corporate negligence also potentially uh
government negligence because the Labor
Department did investigate and visited
the site as recently as a week ago and
already found the problems there and yet
nothing seems to have been done to
prevent this tragedy and it's also a
political problem because we are close
to the legislative council elections
campaigning has been suspended John Lee
said he will decide whether or not to
postpone the elections but certainly the
way the government handles this tragy
is going to shape people's perception of
the Hong Kong government. Beijing
certainly will be watching very closely.
John Lee made a point last night at the
press conference early on in his remarks
to thank President Ci and Beijing,
thanking them for dispatching the rescue
task force from China's Hong Kong office
as well. And of course, the election now
is quite different from what it was a
few years ago, right? Because of the
national security law, the pro-democracy
voices have been silenced. And even
without this fire, that sky-high
property prices have long been a source
of discontent for many citizens.
Minman, thank you for the update. Uh,
Minman Low there on site for us. Flags
in Hong Kong are now at half mass. We
did also hear from the chief executive
that all government-ledd uh celebratory
events uh will be put off uh for some
time. Um and yes, civil servants and
we've talked about the private sector
have been also mobilized of course in
terms of the uh relief efforts underway.
Um joining us here on set, Hong Kong
Leco Council member Regina, who chairs
the New People's Party is here with us
to
under very uh unfortunate circumstances.
Of course, it's been a very terrible and
trying week here for Hong Kong. Just
give us a sense, Regina, of what your
conversations have been with your peers.
Well, my my colleagues have been working
very hard in the uh um the affected area
to help the victims providing uh
blankets, face masks, um diapers and all
sorts of uh things they need, you know,
and it's all very sad. I think now
questions are more questions are being
raised whether uh we should continue to
allow bamboo scaffoldings to be used for
such massive operations. You know uh it
has been pointed out before that bamboo
scaffolding should only be used for
smaller scale renovation
>> not for renovation of such a large scale
project uh encompassing eight blocks of
uh housing estates and also actual one
court in Taipo is not uh new to
controversy. There have been arguments
between the owners about awarding of the
the contracts renovation contracts which
is which cost Hong Kong dollar 350
million which is above average you know
and that's why the former owner owners
corporation were voted out last
September and replaced by a new owners
corporation with the responsibility to
supervise the works but actually all
these owners they are unpaid volunteers
years, you know, they might have been
affected themselves. So, the question is
with such a multi-story building
management, can you really rely on
owners working as unpaid volunteers to
supervise the works? So I think the
government need to do more to help the
residents and as your people reported uh
labor department already found the some
of the materials were not compliant with
government standards and it is really
sad that the bamboo scaffolding coupled
with the non-fire retardant uh mash
netting and the dry weather and the
windy weather caused the fire to spread
so quickly and led to such colossal loss
of life and property is really sad.
>> Yeah, we should reiterate as well that
the investigations uh into the
construction company that you mentioned
are ongoing and and obviously we haven't
got to the exact bottom of of what went
wrong and and also this question over
which materials were used and whether
they were contravening safety standards.
But Regina, I mean, you are someone as a
former secretary for security have been
in this government position before that
Chris Tongue now finds himself in today.
Do you think that there needs to be any
government officials that are also held
accountable for what's happened?
>> I think again it's premature to pass
judgment on any officials or even on any
companies involved. But I think
government should take a good look at
our existing legislation whether there
are gaps in the requirements about fire
retardant materials not only for
construction but also for smaller scale
renovations and to step up the
enforcement. I think this should be part
of the overall review and investigation
to be conducted by government. What
about
potential changes to the things like the
awarding of contracts
>> for example? Is that something that you
think ledge should be looking at as
well? And should we expect changes
there?
>> There have always been complaints about
awarding of contracts because there's a
lot of competition for these lucrative
works, you know. So the urban renewal
authority already providing a service to
the the to the owners. they can contract
the URRA and they will help you assess
the value of the contract when you do
the tendering. I think this has been
done in many instances but still is a
hot area of contention between owners
and between competitors for the jobs. H
>> the Hong Kong chief executive John Lee
visited the site yesterday and he did
announce that $10,000 Hong Kong dollars.
That's around $1,300 US will be handed
out to each family that's been affected.
Do you think that's sufficient?
>> That's a just immediate relief. Clearly
insufficient. These people have lost
their homes and properties and um some
of them will move to hotel soon. But
currently the government is offering
accommodation in transitional housing uh
temporary housing in far away areas far
away from their homes. So they have a
lot of adjustment to do uh whether for
work or for schooling for the the
children. So the government set up a
fund you know fundraising. The
government contributed 300 million Hong
Kong dollars toward the fund for
long-term relief for the Wango Court
residents and I think the latest is we
already received 800 million Hong Kong
dollars donations from the community. I
think more money will be flooding in
including from American corporations and
the American chamber for which we are
grateful. Yeah, we we've seen really an
outpouring of of support
>> u in kind uh as well to your point
there.
>> You're very familiar with how the system
works in Hong Kong. We've heard a lot of
let's call it strong language from the
chief executive overnight, you know, a
further review of
>> one issue is the scaffolding of course.
>> Are there specific changes that you
think we should expect and when do you
think those changes are?
Um I always think that the multi-story
building management is a big problem.
You know the government has already
updated the law but the fact remains if
you rely on owners like myself I'm an
owner. In fact, in many building, nobody
wants to sit on the owner's corporation.
It's a thankless job, you know,
>> and they are unpaid volunteers, you
know, and they really need more help
from government, expert advice as well
as help in mediation in case of disputes
and um uh and more help from ICA to uh
deal with possible corruption. You know,
I think the ICAC ought to get more
deeply involved because with these large
scale housing projects, a lot of money
is involved in each renovation project.
M
>> how and I think to Bill's point,
investigations are still ongoing, but
how cognizant
um is ledge over potential loopholes
that could allow for corruption to
result in contracts being far beyond the
monetary value and do you think
government regulation to aid owners
associations is could address
>> that issue? Um many electrical members
who have worked it done district work
for a long time are well aware of these
building management problems and the
squables between residents. Yeah.
>> Uh but the awarding of contracts after
all had to be decided by the owners
corporation.
>> That's right.
>> Yeah. And from time to time in more than
one case there have been arguments
between different owners. And this is
something maybe the home affairs bureau
need to step in a bit more
>> in terms of just to address also the the
firefighting
ability and you know anyone who has
visited Hong Kong who's seen Hong Kong
on television or in other media. You
know, we live in skyscrapers all around
and one can't help but think if if and
when something like what happened this
week happens, the ability for
firefighters to be able to address not
just a skyscraper on fire, but several
at that are is does technology have a
role in being able to equip the
firefighters to be able to address this
if and when it happens and hopefully
never again? Well, I think there are
arrangements um between Hong Kong and
other cities in the greater bay area to
share the resources and the technology
and I know Guangjao and Shamjan are
ready to help you know but the space is
so limited you know Hong Kong is so
congested very large appliances would
have difficulty maneuvering around the
buildings you know and I noticed that uh
our compatriates on the Chinese mainland
have queried why we have not use drones,
you know,
>> and I understand that eight drones have
been loaned to us. Uh, but they are more
for monitoring the heat level rather for
than for spraying water. And there must
be good technical reasons for that, you
know. But you see, Hong Kong is so
crowded. These eight blocks are very
close to each other and the units are
small and uh the layout is complex. And
I heard from the deputy fire chief that
uh his firemen actually had to really
climb floor by floor, fight their way up
to to break into each home to save the
residents and they've done an amazing
job. All of them owe a big tribute to
the fireman for the big sacrifice
particularly to the one to the family of
the one Mr. Ho who lost his life, you
know.
>> Yeah. The most densely populated city in
the world.
We're days away now though from from the
heavily promoted legislative elections.
Do you think that there's case for those
to be postponed? Is that the appropriate
response do you think?
>> I think there are legal limitations both
from local law and um the basic law. I'm
sure it's under consideration by the
government and we are waiting to hear
from the government. Currently, all
political parties have suspended our
campaigning activities and our people
are on the ground to help the victims.
>> Regina, thank you for joining us this
morning. Of course, a very solemn
occasion, but but we do appreciate you
making the time for us as we continue to
to really assess the impact of of the
worst fire that Hong Kong has seen in
decades. But that was Regina Ip there,
the Hong Kong Legislative Council member
and New People's Party Chair as well.
We'll have more on the fire in Hong Kong
coming up on Insight. We'll be speaking
to engineering experts. That's as the
city moves to end the use of traditional
bamboo scaffolding. More ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
Bloomberg's learned that at least
[music] two major local banks rejected
China's recent attempt to secure a
short-term loan. And for the latest now
on that story and the broader property
wos that we see as well in mainland
China, let's bring in our team. We've
got our China credit reporter Trista
Shinur joining us along with our
Bloomberg intelligence chief Asia credit
strategist Timothy Timothy Tan rather
also in the studio here this morning.
But but Trista, we can get started with
you because this was great reporting
yesterday and of course a really big
story to be following as well. But but
why exactly have we got these
rejections? Yeah. So, Vanka tried to
secure the short-term loan from banks uh
in mainland China, but they got rejected
and that short-term loan is actually
they're planning to u you know help them
to repay the two bonds economy maturing
in was in total of you know more than 5
billion yen. And then later um after
they got the rejection and later on um
late uh Wednesday night we see they sent
a filing on mainland saying that they're
seeking you know to delay the UN payment
which shocked the uh investor a lot as
we can see yesterday uh the bond price
no matter onore and offshore drop a lot
and also equity uh drop a lot as well.
So I think the rejection actually
underscore the waning support uh the
government or the biggest shareholder
can get um for uh the van vaner moving
forward right. So because for such a
long time obviously Vena is still a
really strong um developer who has not
been defaulted yet and for a long time
investors still have some kind of more
comfortable on this name but right now
it's actually the shift about you know
how investor are seeing bank moving
forward
>> in in the event that the company does
fail to refinance what will be the
broader implications based on the people
that you speak you've spoken to this
week? Yeah, of course people are
actually, you know, trying to see
whether there will actually a
restructuring coming in uh for banker,
right? And then more broadly speaking, I
think uh if banker going to default or
restructuring definitely uh you know
undermine the you know the the overall
confidence on on this whole sector and
we already almost the fifth year of the
whole property crisis and people started
wondering where's the end of this and
then uh what's going to happen after uh
banker default and yeah
>> we'll bring you in Tim. What's what's
your reaction to to how this has been
playing out but also the broader
implications?
>> Well, uh let's put it this way. Delaying
payment is probably expected.
>> Uh banker doesn't have a leverage
problem. It has a liquidity problem
because property sales have not been
catching up fast enough to be able to
then completely repay their bonds. No. I
mean, come on. If you cut off financing,
real estate companies naturally die.
>> Now, the question is, can you refinance?
Re in the past the central government
have been supporting it significantly
and they have been able to refinance a
fair most of their bonds until now
>> now the question everybody is asking is
not so much whether vanka can refinance
is whether the central government will
continue to support the company
>> correct now if the central government
says okay fine uh the banks don't lend
we will inject more uh what you call
shareholder loans it's possible all
right maybe not immediately. That's why
they're asking for a delay of the bonds
or they'll go to the bond order say hey
come on why don't you extend for another
year we'll pay you extra money this has
been done so often already is not should
not be a surprise to anybody that this
happens when the dollar bond market well
you are looking at offshore bonds
offshore bonds have been trading at 35
cents anyway
>> whether it's 35 cent or 25 cent is not a
reflection of whether vancer will
survive it's whether what your recovery
value is that's a different story right
but onore bonds remains at this point
around 70 cents it was at 90 cents it
dropped 20 cents reflecting this risk.
Now obviously restructuring I think is a
given at some point.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. Not not the kind of restructuring
you see in country garden or for that
matter ever or any other much more
highly leveled ones but more a
redistribution of maturities
>> along those lines.
>> Why not why why not of that kind? What
makes
>> the leverage is not high.
>> We're not talking about company that has
six times leverage or five times
leverage. We're talking about less than
one.
So technically speaking, if you're
looking at the balance sheet, the
company is okay from a leverage
perspective,
>> right?
>> But they are meeting liquidity issues
because the market refinancing mechanism
has shut off. That's a different story.
>> And is that the reason why spreads
broadly have not blown out?
>> Yeah, I mean in what sense the onshore
ones in at least for the bonds it has
blown out. But for the broader market is
we are already past the point of looking
at oh is this guy going to default? We
are looking at where is the recovery
come going to be when it is going to be.
>> So you're going to because most of the
big companies have already restructured
correct you got recently country garden
was the latest one
>> okay Shima has already completely issued
new convertible bonds to to restructure
the whole maturity system. So now it's
not a question of okay are they going to
default on new bonds how when is the
recovery going to come when I'm going to
get my money back
>> over time
>> just broadly it it you know the the
conversation from a liquidity issue to a
solveny issue can happen quite quickly
>> yes
>> uh in terms of the company sales if that
dries up does it become a solveny issue
>> well yes obviously if it completely
dries up it will be a solveny issue
>> but that's not the case
>> okay
>> it's just slow sales
>> okay but and also because even if you So
sales companies require refinancing if
you are let's say for real estate or any
high capital utilization industry right
you cut off the liquidity all companies
will face liquidity issues
>> okay thank you so much Timothy Tan
Trista Law there on the latest with
Vango and the broader implications
potentially this is the China show
[music]
right uh just a look at some of uh the
movers we're tracking going into what 30
minutes uh into [music] the cash market
session. Popart uh note out of MS here.
Um good entry point when you look at it.
Uh we had a big move already in the
stock this week. A further move as you
can see here on your screens. Uh we're
also looking at leaning and other stocks
[music] as well. We'll get into most of
these things. Uh the second hour of the
China show is just ahead.
>> [music]
>> You're watching the China Show this
[music] morning and bringing you the
latest on the situation in Hong Kong
where firefighters say they're close to
completing their search of seven
burntout apartment towers. That's after
fires there killed at least 94 people.
>> Yes. Uh and we are expecting to get more
updates throughout the day. Um we are
almost about let's call it 48 hours uh
from the initial reports of that fire.
Uh we've had and seen and heard an
outpouring of supports uh pledges of
financial supports and in kind as well.
And to the extent and we'll get a really
a sense of the how this is shaping up on
the ground in a moment. uh to the extent
that some volunteers um have had to be
turned back just because of the initial
response coming through from the private
sector as well when you look at what's
taking place of course in in typo that
is also to say there's a separate
conversation and investigation taking
place into what happened whether or not
of course that was down to the
contractor and the engineering company
we've had a conversation earlier here of
course with Regina IP who had joined us
here earlier on that there needs to be
that they are planning to look at things
like the awarding of contracts and there
has to be a more structural conversation
there that then led to uh everything
else that that that that took place. Um
and of course as we wrap up quite a
tragic week here.
>> Yeah, absolutely. And as you said, those
investigations ongoing and and one of
the the I think more tragic points of
this is that authorities actually had
inspected that site several times and
warned about the fire risk as as
recently as last week. So uh clearly
those investigations ongoing. But let's
bring in our China correspondent, Min
Lo, who joins us now from an evacuation
center in Hong Kong. And and Min, share
with us exactly what's happening there
with you.
>> Yes, I'm close to an official evacuation
can uh center nearby, but this area is
actually entirely selforganized. You can
see behind me there are these
comforters, blankets, sheets, tents,
sleeping bags, pillows, just everything
you need to make you feel comfortable
just for the night. It's entirely
self-organized by residents in the area.
Just random people coming up to provide
donations and people volunteering to
organize. Many of them are students,
some of them freelancers, and they take
time off to to help out here. Here you
can see shampoos, uh towels, uh you know
there are disposable underweares, there
are medical stuff, you know, I saw
patches for that treat fever. Um it's
very busy here. Uh we are just about one
or two streets away from the actual
scene of the fire. So as close as we can
get and that's where a lot of residents
just inside the the market center over
there, uh overnight there were people
sleeping there with the the mattresses
that they got here. I mean, it's very
chilly outside to spend the night. So,
they were just sleeping in the
corridors. Um, unfortunately, I saw some
scuffles broken out just now because
there were some people that I think the
volunteers suspect they were not victims
of the fire, but they were perhaps just
trying to get some free stuff and a bit
of a small fight broken out that broke
out earlier. And over there, you can see
uh the triage center. Uh there is a
medical tent uh just to give support for
uh small uh long-term per perennial sort
of um injuries that people have. Any
serious sort of burn issues, those will
be sent to the hospital. But you can see
that it's pretty uh well supported and
it's really encouraging to see that so
many residents just came out to provide
their support and actually at the
evacuation center I saw a sign that says
that they are not accepting any more
donations. So it seems like they are
well uh uh well supported right right
now.
>> Yeah maybe I actually going to ask you
that at this point do you get a sense
what what exactly is is still needed
because we are getting a lot of reports
anecdotal and we are hearing in fact
also from some of these statements
coming out that you know to stop them
from coming at this point in time. We're
okay for now but this is not going to be
an overnight thing. It won't be over the
weekend. It won't be even you know over
the next few weeks. you know, a lot of
the residents will uh will be in a
separate place, let's put it that way,
for uh for months. And I want to get a
sense of what exactly is needed and is
there some sort of strategy to spread
out the support just to ensure that
>> things are adequate today, but do they
remain adequate well into after a few
weeks time?
You know, when I speak to the volunteers
here, they said it was completely ju it
just sprung up from the residents, you
know, the community here and they have
no idea what's going to happen next
because people just came together. They
found an empty space here. They set
things up and things just gathered steam
and they were like, "Oh, we don't
actually know if we would be chased
out." It just sort of came together in a
very impromptu way. They don't know how
long it will be here. It may be a couple
of days, maybe longer depending on
whether there are still residents sort
of milling around trying to find a place
to sleep or whether they will eventually
be relocated somewhere else. So
everything is just very organic and
nobody has any uh answers to tell me
here. So it just is it's just kind of
springing up uh as as we go. And longer
term the government has said they have
identified about 1,800
apartment units throughout Hong Kong
that could serve as transitional housing
for the people affected. That is roughly
equivalent to the total housing stock
that was affected by the fire. So that's
going to be the long-term plan. the
interim pet plan. There are nine
shelters uh most of them community
centers that the government is keeping
open as long as there are residents who
need it and of course there are hotels
participating as well in this effort
offering free rooms for up to two weeks
while these residents find their
footing.
What do we know about the the government
investigations and and where they stand
into what exactly sparked this fire in
the first place and and the overall
handling of it as well?
>> Yes. I mean, I think one of the most
remarkable things is that the government
really moved very swiftly to arrest the
three people from the engineering
company that they accused of
manslaughter and gross negligence. and
they have acknowledged that the speed of
the fire was unusual. They found sub
substandard materials. They said, you
know, the green mesh surrounding the
buildings shouldn't have burnt as fast
as it did. And they found flammable
materials like the styrofoam boards
covering the windows on many many
floors. They found those plastic
waterproof tapoline sheets that
shouldn't be there as well. And the
question is whether it's just the fault
of the engineering company or is there
some sort of corruption, some sort of
negligence among the public bureaus as
well because the Department of Labor
already inspected the site. As recently
as a week ago, they knew of the issues
and yet it doesn't seem like anything
was done to prevent this fire. So is
there some sort of, you know, perhaps
the Department of Labor needs to take
some accountability here? But we're not
sure because at the press briefing
yesterday, reporters was were asking if
some officials need to step down because
of this and the spokesperson uh sort of
sidestepped that question and said that
you know investigations are ongoing.
They have set up a task force though to
look into potential corruption
especially into the uh oversight as well
as the contracting process here.
That was our China correspondent Mim Min
Lo there on the ground for us just very
close to the site of where that fire
broke out in Taipo. And I think it's
it's of course going to be a big uh
question as to how this plays into these
local elections that are coming up
because the government's been heavily
promoting these. They are due to take
place really just just days away. It's
that question as well that's already
been posed to government officials.
Should they be looking to postpone them
instead? And the chief executive John
Lee's already said that they may make
that decision again. uh just in the in
the next few days as well. But we did
speak to to the Hong Kong Legislative
Council member Regina IP about this very
question and again the the impact that
this inferno could have as locals head
to the polls.
>> I think there are legal limitations both
from local law and um the basic law. I'm
sure it's under consideration by the
government and we are waiting to hear
from the government. Currently, all
political parties have suspended our
campaigning activities and our people
are on the ground to help the victims.
>> And we have seen an outpouring of
support and minman just really give us a
snapshot what it is specifically there
and where she is right now towards the
survivors of the fire. Donations have
been stacking up uh individuals,
businesses. Uh for more on this part of
the story, surely Jaw is with us here on
set to just help us understand the
response. Let let's start with the the
government response. We did hear of
course from John Lee yesterday. Just
give us a sense of what that's like.
>> Yeah. So on the political side, of
course, we've got all these
investigations going on into potential
corruption and going to the roots of the
potential cause of the issue and the
safety issue of Hong Kong's construction
process. On the financial side, the Hong
Kong uh insurance authority has urged
insurance companies to provide, you
know, timely support for those who are
making inquiries and claims. And Hong
Kong's monetary authority uh is also
asking banks to provide support to those
who need financial assistance or any
other sort of assistance. on this front.
>> You can see here just that on on in
terms of the vision that direct
outpouring of support we've seen from
residents that are very close to this
site. As Mim was just saying earlier, uh
what we're seeing here is just a couple
of streets away from from the building
site in Taipo itself and you have seen
that direct pouring of of of support
from residents. But what about residents
that are supporting in different ways?
For instance, we were talking earlier
about blood donations, other different
uh ways that people are looking to lend
a hand. What have we got on that front?
>> Yeah, across the city, um a lot of
residents are donating all sorts of
things, uh supplies, including food, uh
water, um you know, clothing and blood.
And some of the donations have
accumulated so much that organizations
setting up you know donation points
across the city are actually asking
people to stop donating and on the uh
you know private business sector a lot
of major and small businesses are also
making donations. Um, and we've seen,
you know, the four biggest Hong Kong
tycoon families, including, uh,
Changong's Leashing family, the
Henderson's Lee family, uh, Sungai Guac
family, and New World's Jen family,
donating money and other sort of
support. Uh, and combined, I think Hong
Kong's business business sector has
donated over 100 million Hong Kong
dollars uh, for um, this this accident.
And just anecdotal uh to this time
yesterday as we were wrapping up the
show, right after the show, a few of us
[snorts] went in fact down to the
central blood donation center
>> and the line was out the building, so we
couldn't even we we were able to get in
the door, but that's as far as you could
go. and the slots were filled up
yesterday and also today which really
shows you how quickly people act and
mobilize here in in the city. Uh there's
also been parallel to this a series of
events that have been private sector
events that have been cancelled. What do
we know about that? Because we know the
government has also said as far as the
public sector celebratory events are
concerned that's been put on ice for
now.
>> Yeah. So, uh, as you said, a series of
events, big and small, have been
cancelled. Some of the most high-profile
ones, including, uh, you know, the Trail
Walker, which is one of the biggest, uh,
fundraising sporting events in Hong
Kong, organized by Oxfam Hong Kong, and
it was originally set to take place
around this weekend, and it has been
cancelled. uh and cyclon uh organized by
the Hong Kong tourism board sponsored by
Sungongai uh has also been cancelled uh
and you know other events include for
example uh Disney's uh premiere of
Zootopia 2 uh and their uh uh evening
light show as well as you know Hong
Kong's uh e evening light show uh and
some arts festival uh have all been
cancelled. Um uh the very major K-pop
music awards Mama Awards will still take
place today and tomorrow at the Kiteac
Sports Park, but the organizer CJN has
said that the theme for the music
festival would be support Hong Kong and
they will also make donations to uh
people affected by the fire and there
will also be a moment of silence to
mourn the casualties of the fire. So um
uh even for events that are going ahead,
the the organizers are thinking very
proactively, you know, how to provide
support and sort of unit to um create
unity um uh among uh residents in Hong
Kong.
>> Shirley, thank you bringing us those
updates there on on the outpouring of
support we've seen from businesses and
also residents in Hong Kong as it deals
with the the death toll really from one
of the worst fire here in decades. But
as of this morning at 6:00 a.m. local
time, rising to 94 with 76 injuries as
well. So, we'll bring more updates on
this front as they come to hand. This is
Bloomberg,
right? Uh just a brief look across uh
equity market. Sorry here. Yeah. [music]
So, Asia is let's call it flat. Uh
there's really not a lot of movement on
price. There's also not a lot of volume.
Um, one particular equity market story
though is in Korea and you're going to
see why in a moment here where you have
the cost stack index going completely
the opposite way uh uh compared to the
normal and main benchmark which is the
Cosby index and not just going the
opposite way and quite substantially
that gap between uh those two things
today down soup I won't get into detail
you can read all about it on the
Bloomberg today um effectively a push uh
to help incentivize the the retail side
of things uh rights we're looking at uh
A&8 H the China bank equity markets
here. Uh the story of course permeates
is more in the fixed income space with a
yuan bond in the 27 20 2025 December one
and of course them approaching to banks
and say hm maybe not. Uh but yes uh four
bonds are halted trading after again
another day of fairly steep drops in
prices. Also happening I think this time
yesterday we were just talking about the
bank of Korea right? uh and it did seem
from that point in time they were they
left the door open to interest rate cuts
but it seemed based on the statements
and the market reaction was that they
might be uh on an extended pause
>> uh for now uh joining us here in SE to
talk us through all things rates and
then the opportunities in this market
going into next year Jason Pang Asia
fixed income portfolio manager at JP
Morgan assets management good morning
sir
>> morning good morning
>> um what's the outlook for em rates are
the bulk of the cuts behind us are we
halfway through are we and what's what's
the assumption?
>> So I think the jury is still out
obviously from a top down perspective.
At the end of the day the Fed will be
easing interest rates to some degree. So
that remains the top down monetary
policy expectation um I think what's
probably more insightful within EM and I
think this is very pertinent towards the
EM Asia part whereas you know we've seen
Latam or other countries cut somewhat
materially um Asia cycle has been much
more of a prolonged cut as you know
since 2018 era. So I think premised off
of that um it's been quite insightful at
least to me that we've seen continuing
um you know uh weaker data in selective
countries still an ongoing tone of you
know deflationary pressures um but
recently and I think Korea Treasury
bonds has been one of those amongst many
others is that we haven't seen interest
rates or government bonds hit new lows.
If anything they've started selling off.
>> Yeah. So the symptoms do me do suggest
that there is a degree of maybe
overpositioning a very entrenched view
on sort of deflation and everything. Um
and one of the things that we've been
looking at which is very interesting is
if you look at China PPI even though
it's been still in a deflationary mode
um it's sort of corrected from a very
low base already. It's still negative
but at the same time when you look at
the Azan CPI baskets all of them have
actually started rebounding as well.
Part of that is base effects, but
obviously part of that may also be that
if PPR starts going higher or stabilizes
from here to net zero, then you might
see uh in China, which drives a lot of
supply chain and the regional
inflationary outlook, um you might see
higher inflation going forward into the
next year.
>> You see higher inflation in in China
specifically into
>> China is a bit more I'd say
>> Asia as Yeah, it's a function of China
PPI.
>> Okay. Sorry.
thinking okay I'm surprised by that one.
Um okay then out of which currencies
then do you prefer or favor then within
the Asian em complex?
>> Yeah. So if if you subscribe to the
theory that we are in a phase of
potentially bottoming out into next year
on interest rates. Um I do believe that
um the Asian currencies are more
interesting for us. So in particular I
do like the the Malaysia ring as one of
the better favored ones on my side. I
think Indonesia rupee is very cheap uh
for for obvious reasons um as well due
to the ongoing cuts that they've had. Um
and I think at least for me then I I've
turned uh somewhat more constructive on
the remmbb. So um those are the three
main picks in terms of the currency
longs that we like.
>> U talk to us about the ringit.
>> Sure. Why why that pray? So the ASAM
ones are very interesting and I think
one thing that people have not talked
about is sort of this we talked about
semiconductor AI and everything but no
one's
>> there again
>> no one's talking about um you know the
hyperinflation for consumers that is
coming through so I I'll give you a sort
of tangent here to consider is if your
but bill of materials has jumped up by
30% 50%. Right? And we all know all the
prices of smartphones are increasing and
computers and so on and so forth. Uh as
baskets on average tend to have uh you
know about 5% in communications or
electrical equipment. So when you see
that massive jump of 30 to 50% you will
see that start reflecting under the CPI.
>> So I think premised off of that you know
Malaysia being a classic case you know
they have a better economic footing
already. There's a big data center play
there. they get it right then I do
believe Malaysia can be a very lucrative
uh currency investment. Of course that
also means that we are a bit more
underweight the interest rates over
there in that market.
>> How does your your thinking around the
dollar also play into this as well and
and where it goes in into next year?
>> So I think the expectation for us
remains on a ongoing uh US interest rate
cut. I would acknowledge uh that
financial conditions are are you know
quite decent uh on the US side but at
the same time if you look at employ uh
unemployment you know there is a pickup
there so I think you know how do you
balance the K-shaped economy is the way
that we would see it but nonetheless uh
we don't believe or I I certainly don't
believe that a K-shaped economy means uh
rate hikes of any sort stable interest
rates is fine you get the rate cuts
that's fine um Asian interest rate
cycles are bottoming out from a very
very low base over time so I think that
setups though suggests to me that um you
want an allocation in non US dollar
investments.
>> Yeah. One of the other calls you just
mentioned the RIMBB I think we're going
to just flash the chart just for our
viewers here. Risk reversals are on
dollar China one year
>> negative I think for the first time in
several years. U we've seen an
outperformance of the Chinese currency
recently. Why do you think that's the
case? And is that the same trade that
you're
>> Yeah, we we've been positioned in the
Roman B for quite some time already. Um
so so I think um we changed our views uh
basically I think uh since uh last
quarter going for more neutral rem
incrementally we've moved more
constructive uh some of this comes from
uh my my general view that cy fixings
have continued to defy model estimates
it's continued to come stronger
>> yes
>> and um I think the thinking that I have
over there is first of all you have CGBs
have not been making new lows so you
have that interest rate dynamic going on
but second of all I think from a top
down policymaker perspective
um and this remains I guess preliminary
but my view is that you know one way
currency depreciation is not the way to
go. It does not produce the constructive
results that you know I guess policy
makers expect or think. So I I think
premised off of that you know we're
seeing some very experimental or new
ways that the currency is being priced.
Um but nonetheless then I I do believe
that um over you know over time right
>> we are sort of you know bottoming out
over there on the Chinese economy as
well to some degree that should produce
uh productive results for the effects as
well.
>> What does it mean then if you see that
bottoming out in the economy in terms of
your preference or allocation around uh
corporate debt as well.
>> Um so I think corporate debt uh China
property remains immensely difficult. So
I don't believe that we've been engaged
in that. Um and I think we've mentioned
before and my view remains the same is
that when you talk about sort of
selective sectors I think the most
difficult one um from a sharp ratio
perspective is the China property right
so
>> you know when you buy China prop you're
basically playing GDP reflation that's
your trade I I still stand by the view
that we should take it as a you know
we've been investing in convertibles in
the H share markets and and Hong Kong
markets uh multipliers there are still
at least to me somewhat cheap relative
to the rest of the world so we've been
sort of using that as the GDP reflation
expression.
>> Jason, thanks very much for joining us
this morning. That was Jason Pang, there
Asia fixed income portfolio manager at
JP Morgan Asset Management. And we will
leave you this morning uh with a look at
how Asian markets are fairing. We are
nearly an hour into the session so far
for for Chinese equities. But you're
seeing here that look across Southeast
[music] Asia. And again, fairly thin
trading volumes, some modest gains for
most of the region. This is Bloomberg.
You're watching the China show and we
are taking a look at some of the movers
rather this Friday morning here. Look,
markets are fairly subdued across the
board. You can see the the broader index
just [music] slightly in the red today.
But on the individual names that are
standing out, well, next chip is one of
[music] the biggest gainers in the
session so far. This is actually a chip
maker that operates in China, but it
does make 12-in wafers, other products
as well. They're [music] some of the
biggest gainers. But let's also dive
into one of the top red stories and
that's PopMart. Uh we've actually seen
the [music] sort of recovery of sorts in
this share because it is leading the
China consumer rally and we do actually
have the likes of Morgan Stanley saying
this [music] valuation offers an
attractive entry point.
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese [music]
markets just about to go into their
break this morning and we're seeing
equities again trading very steady in
the session. Continuing to monitor
[music] the the ongoing fallout really
between uh Japan and China over the
comments that the Japanese prime
minister uh made about essentially
coming to the aid of Taiwan in the event
of an invasion from China. So that of
course is is been marching on for the
past few weeks. But we do actually have
Goldman Sachs out with a note this
morning and they're saying that the
rising tensions between Tokyo and
Beijing could end up shaving about 0.2 a
percentage point off GDP for Japan.
That's if if tourism and exports of
consumer goods to China continues to
decline. So that's the the note from
Goldman. But in terms of what else we're
watching this morning, still keeping an
eye on what's happening with JGBs and
that's after we had the two the
inflation numbers rather uh from Toko
earlier today. Of course, that's sort of
seen as as an early indicator really of
where the national uh inflation heads as
well.
>> Yeah. In fact, let's let's get more in
that and how markets are reacting or the
lack of it really uh when you look at
the JGB space. We do have a of course a
two-year bond auction uh later in case
you're watching out of the US. That
means Friday here uh in the Asia Pacific
or I'll give you a time frame for that
about an hour [laughter] uh from now.
>> Very precise
>> uh inflation. Let's talk about that.
Yeah. To Belt's point, steady in in
November. Uh what does it mean for the
BOJ? Um are they on track still? Uh when
you look at interest rate path likely so
just looking at where negative rates are
really and how deeply uh that situation
still remains. Let's get into the
details though of the print that came
out just about let's call it 3 hours
back. Uh Paul Jackson, our economy and
government editor is with us right now
uh to talk us through and break down the
data for us. Paul, anything stand out to
you sir?
Um well I think this is uh really more
of the same that the the data proved a
little bit stronger a little bit more
robust than we thought. Uh so we're
around the 2.8% mark that compares with
the national figure which is around 3%.
These are elevated levels for inflation
in Japan and uh it kind of underlines
the point that the economics really
points to the need to raise interest
rates uh in Japan. So, I think from an
economic standpoint, uh it makes sense
for the Bank of Japan to get on with it
and raise rates uh in December, but
there's still a lot of debate about
whether they will go in December or uh
in uh January. Uh we've seen some of the
advisers to Takahi, Prime Minister
Takichi uh and members of the coalition
saying it would be a mixed message to
raise interest rates. At the same time,
you're putting out a an economic package
to to help people in the uh in the
economy. Uh and so it makes sense to
wait for January. So you can argue it
both ways maybe on the economics uh
December and politically January.
>> And we were just talking with you there,
Paul, on the outbreak about whether you
as a as a resident, a longtime resident
in Tokyo noticing any less tourists on
the ground. But even if you're not,
Goldman Sachs has got a note out this
morning talking about the impact that
this this spat between Tokyo and Beijing
could end up having on Japan's GDP.
Uh yeah, uh the Goldman uh report
suggests about 0.2 percentage point. Um
so, you know, from a political
standpoint, you could you could uh you
could take that on the uh on the chin
and stand your ground. it's not going to
uh bring uh the economy to its knees. So
I think the takeaway from that report is
uh yeah I mean there's there could be a
noticeable hit. Uh but this is not of
the the kind of scale uh that would
force uh Takahi to retract her mark her
remarks. I think that's the takeaway
from from that figure. We have seen
slightly larger figures like 0.3
percentage point out there for the for
the impact. I think one interesting
point in the Goldman note was that they
said in the in the scenario uh where
China got into the supplies of rare
earths then we could be talking about
more significant impact on the economy
but they didn't calculate that because
uh presumably they still see that as
that option as far off.
That was our Japan and Korea's economy
and government editor Paul Jackson
joining us this morning. And in some
other corporate news that we're
tracking, uh, Bloomberg's learned that
at least two major local banks rejected
China Vanka's attempt to secure [music]
a short-term loan. Sources say Vanka
held talks with banks about obtaining a
liquidity loan to help repay two bonds
that are due next month, but the
discussions were [music] unsuccessful.
The developer is struggling to ease
default fears that fuel this week's
plunge in its bonds.
Taiwanese prosecutors have [music]
searched the homes of a former TSMC
executive suspended or suspected rather
of leaking trade secrets to his new
employer, [music]
Intel. It signals an escalation in the
government's criminal investigation into
the high-profile [music] dispute. TSMC
has sued Lowe Gen, alleging a high
likelihood that he shared sensitive
information with Intel, [music]
something the US company denies.
And Alibaba has made a rare foray into
hardware, [music]
releasing smart glasses powered by its
Quen AI models. The product called Quark
S1 [music] features built-in translucent
displays that superimpose contextual
information on the users's view [music]
of their surroundings. The glasses are
equipped with cameras, bone conduction
microphones, and swappable batteries.
They're available now in China with
Alibaba promising [music] international
versions next year. And you are seeing
again a bit of a move high with Alibaba
in the session today. Interesting as
we're talking about it sort of makes
that move to to monetize different AI
streams as well. But when we talk about
AI, the the the key concern that we've
really had in markets for for a long
time now are fears around circular
deals, fears around AI bubbles. And
earlier on the tech show, because we had
the latest episode of Bloomberg Tech
Asia this morning, we were talking about
that very topic, concerns around AI
bubble fears. And and one of the
companies that's most uh connected to
this is is Foxcon of course in Asia
because we see Foxcon it's it's the the
key supplier or lead supplier of AI
service to Oracle for instance in the US
Oracle SoftBank OpenAI are working on
project Stargate. Now Foxcon has teamed
up as well with with OpenAI directly.
They're going to be working on further
infrastructure efforts. So I spoke with
with the Foxcon chairman Yanglu last
week and I asked him this very question.
Is he concerned about the AI bubbles but
also the risk that we're seeing some
circular deals?
>> I look at from the use
uh users point of view the use of the
the model. Okay. From that angle as a
user for you know this uh large language
model for our manufacturer for our daily
uses you know we have a great potential
for the use of that capabilities we know
[music] that and it's not just for us
it's for all you know businesses they
need it so the demands [music] are there
how to fulfill it and in what way in
terms of finance
you know, they will figure out a way as
long as there's demands.
I think people are concerned about
whether [music] the demands,
>> you know, are not real.
>> What about the monetization though cuz
that is also a concern. How can how can
a company like OpenAI for instance with
such a big spend on infrastructure get
enough revenue to make the the the
financials make sense essentially? I
mean, are you concerned about still
joining forces or signing this MU with a
company that's not even yet profitable?
[music]
>> Look at this. They have 800 million
users nowadays already.
Yeah. If they can, you know, get, you
know, let's say $100 a year,
that's about 80 billion [music]
a year.
>> Yes. If people are prepared to spend
that much,
not 1,000.
>> Okay. So, if you calculate per user
revenue, oh, that's maybe achievable and
it's up to them, you know, what kind of
a products that they're going to
provide.
So like they have this uh they formed a
joint venture with uh love with Johnny I
called IO the company called [music] IO
but they're trying to come out with uh
new edge devices right you know if that
comes something you know will happen
>> but the the [music] fortunes of
companies like Nvidia OpenAI Oracle
they're increasingly tied together Is is
there any risk of that? If one domino
falls, the other one can wobble as well.
>> Uh you know if we have to you if we look
back uh in the 2000 [music]
uh about the internet bubble, you know,
people call it bubble, right? But if you
look at what it is now today, the the
top at least seven of the top 10
high-tech company in the states, they're
all internet [music] companies.
I imagine maybe 10 years from now the
top 10 of the high-tech company in the
US they're mostly AI companies
that's a huge valuation
right for
uh for for those companies and the
investment
for [music]
that
I I don't think it's too too much.
>> That was the Foxcon chairman Yanglu
there. And we'll leave you with a look
at how markets are fairing this morning.
As we said, heading through the morning
session, we're seeing a little bit of
modest downside, but again, very [music]
thin liquidity in the session so far.
The Hang Sang off 210 of 1%. More ahead.
Right, welcome back. You're watching the
China Show. We're gearing up for
earnings [music] out of Muan. We're down
about uh let's call it 51%
still above 100 but yet still at about
100 which is obviously one of the main
issues here. I mean the peer group is of
of Mtoan itself as we go into the
earnings is fairly tricky right so
obviously you have the big China
comparisons but if you look across
outside China you have like door dash
for example maybe Uber u and in terms of
just within the Chinese f uh tech
complex five being the most bullish on
the consensus rating so that's if you
get a five that effectively means you
have almost zero hold and sell ratings
one is the opposite mate one is still on
the clearly on the bull side of things,
but not as bullish as when you compare
that to its peers in China, which
obviously is the same analyst universe.
That's just to say, compared to the
other two, people are less bullish on
the stock itself. Right? Going into
earnings today, what's going to be
interesting, and shout out to Anthony
Stevens, of course, our markets
producer, for pointing this out, right?
Um, if you do get if, it's a big if,
right? If you do get the market reacting
on the negative side of things and we do
see based on implied right now that
could be a 5% drop it actually takes you
past the 100 Hong Kong dollar pain point
which is if you take the stock all the
way back a couple of years that's
actually a level yes it's traded below
that but actually a level that's held up
it's a nice whole round number it's also
we have a lot of options options
expireies it's effectively the paying
trade if we do see that fall below that
will depend of course on the earnings
that are coming through later today.
That is also to say there is some
momentum in shares. We had of course if
you remember we had that report coming
out of Baba and on that day the day
after that it was actually mate one that
started pushing higher on price uh a
massive move into options contracts
yesterday. So call options uh in terms
of the volume three times the 20-day
average and about 125,000 contracts as
of yesterday is the highest since
August. So, a lot of bullish calls here,
Bill, going into this earnings report
and hopefully that does deliver and of
course these guys go in the money as far
as that's concerned. Bill,
>> yeah, it's it's so interesting, Dave, I
think, just in terms of the the moves
we've seen this week because I mean,
we've I'm not going to call it 10%, but
you're not too far off an upside move or
appreciation of 10% in the stock so far
this week, which is very curious given
that you've seen that real pain from
from the food price delivery wars and
quick commerce playing out in Alibaba's
numbers, JD, as well. But let's get more
with our Bloomberg intelligence senior
analyst Katherine Lim who joins us more
now rather from Singapore. So, so
Katherine, thanks very much for your
time. What are you going to be watching
for in in the numbers later today and
especially I guess the guidance as well?
>> Yeah, so you know the numbers um
Annabelle we know it's going to be the
first loss that the company will be
reporting particularly for their core
local commerce which is essentially you
know the delivery side um of things
itself. So really it's about the forward
guidance and would they be saying the
same as what Alibaba said that you know
they investments into this business has
peaked um and now they're looking to
actually rein in some of the expenses
etc. Um and we probably will see the
losses narrowing if not um you know we
might actually see the business turning
profitable again. So really that's the
question that I'm looking for answers
for later this evening.
>> And Catherine, once we do get this
result into your point, we will likely
see its first loss. I think another
question I have is is it is this going
to be the first loss of many? But I
think we can talk about that next time.
But when we do see these numbers, do you
think that's a a good approximation of
the the health of the Chinese consumer
and online spending? Or do I have to
look at another company for a better
gauge of that?
Yeah, that's a great question because
you know essentially the companies are
losing profits. They are going into
losses because they have thrown in a lot
to try to stimulate the consumption
which at the end of the day it isn't the
most robust right now and going into
2026. The real question right now is you
know as they re in back on some of these
perks and incentives are we going to see
the same kind of revenue growth for
these businesses and rather you know the
consumption overall environment itself
uh concerns about income growth um you
know the outlook ahead um coming back
from Beijing I don't really think that
has actually changed a lot rather you
know shoppers are definitely still more
discerning as they step into the new
there,
>> Katherine. It's always fantastic
insights going into this earnings report
and what it could tell us, of course,
broadly around the the consumer.
Katherine Lim, our senior analyst,
Bloomberg Intelligence in Singapore for
us this morning. a a brief look at
publishing related stocks, media stocks
you can call them that. Uh there's this
uh the state council released this draft
uh draft rule to be more specific here
to promote reading and encourage the
development of applications of new
technologies, platforms and facilities
that promote reading. Nationwide market
is reacting to that. Uh yeah, a lot of
these big names of course are moving uh
in some cases 14% double digits, right?
Uh one other thing to track uh you're
looking at the overnight hybrate Hong
Kong dollar obviously we doesn't trade
intraday uh we will get a fixing though
in about 20 or so minutes from now. The
reason I we underscore this today was
yesterday we actually saw a sizable move
up and as you can see I think it was the
biggest move uh on a day-to-day basis in
about 2 years or so. Just track this
closely. Is it month end or is it
something [music] else? Uh I'll leave
you with a look at that and we'll take a
short break. We'll be back shortly.
Well, the search for answers has begun
in Hong Kong after at least 94 people
were killed in the worst fire the city
has seen in decades. Hong Kong legis
legislative council member Regina Ips
says it's too early to pass judgment on
any government officials or companies
involved. The new people's party chair
spoke to us earlier today.
The question is with such a multi-story
building management, can you really rely
on owners working as unpaid volunteers
to supervise the works? So I think the
government need to do more to help the
residents and as your people reported uh
labor department already found the some
of the materials were not compliant with
government standards and it is really
sad that the bamboo scaffolding coupled
with the non-fire retardant uh mash
netting and the dry weather and the
windy weather caused the fire to spread
so quickly and led to such colossal loss
of life and property is really sad.
>> Yeah, we should reiterate as well that
the investigations uh into the
construction company that you mentioned
are ongoing and and obviously we haven't
got to the exact bottom of of what went
wrong and and also this question over
which materials were used and whether
they were contravening safety standards.
But Regina, I mean, you are someone as a
former secretary for security have been
in this government position before that
Chris Tongue now finds himself in today.
Do you think that there needs to be any
government officials that are also held
accountable for what's happened?
>> I think again it's premature to pass
judgment on any officials or even on any
companies involved. But I think
government should take a good look at
our existing legislation whether there
are gaps in the requirements about fire
retardant materials not only for
construction but also for smaller scale
renovations and to step up the
enforcement. I think this should be part
of the overall review and investigation
to be conducted by government. What
about
potential changes to the things like the
awarding of contracts
>> for example? Is that something that you
think ledge should be looking at as
well? And do we expect changes there?
>> There have always been complaints about
awarding of contracts because there's a
lot of competition for these lucrative
works, you know. So the urban renewal
authority already providing a service to
the the to the owners. they can contract
the URRA and they will help you assess
the value of the contract when you do
the tendering. I think this has been
done in many instances but still is a
hot area of contention between owners
and between competitors for the jobs.
The Hong Kong chief executive John Lee
visited the site yesterday and he did
announce that $10,000 Hong Kong dollars
that's around $1,300 US will be handed
out to each family that's been affected.
Do you think that's sufficient?
>> That's a just immediate relief. Clearly
insufficient. These people have lost
their homes and properties and um some
of them will move to hotel soon. But
currently the government is offering
accommodation in transitional housing uh
temporary housing in far away areas far
away from their homes. So they have a
lot of adjustment to do uh whether for
work or for schooling for the the
children. So the government set up a
fund you know fundraising. The
government contributed 300 million Hong
Kong dollars toward the fund for
long-term relief for the Wangok court
residents and I think the latest is we
already received 800 million Hong Kong
dollars donations from the community. I
think more money will be flooding in
including from American corporations and
the American chamber for which we are
grateful.
>> We're days away now though from from the
heavily promoted legislative elections.
Do you think that there's case for those
to be postponed? Is that the appropriate
response, do you think?
>> I think there are legal limitations both
from local law and um the basic law. I'm
sure it's under consideration by the
government and we are waiting to hear
from the government. Currently, all
political parties have suspended our
campaigning activities and our people
are on the ground to help the victims.
Regina,
>> that was the Hong Kong ledge co member
Regina Ips speaking with us earlier this
morning and we're taking you to some
live pictures here. This is a market
that's become a distribution center for
supplies and we understand this is just
a couple of blocks away from where this
fire happened at the building or
building complex in Taipo. And I I think
that's really one of the most remarkable
features of this as well has just been
that huge outpouring of support you've
seen from everyday citizens but also
businesses across the city as well.
We've seen staggering amounts of
financial support being pledged from the
government, from foundations, from
private sector. And I think Regina if we
we just spoke to earlier, we played a
tape. We've heard a lot from the Chinese
corporates and she does expect also to
get the same amount uh from some of the
other multinationals including the
American firms. U as of course we are
just about to wrap up what's been a very
very very tragic week here in the city.
that this live picture does give you a
reminder that not to lose hope in
humanity and our ability to respond to
things like this. That's it from us here
on the China Show. We'll see you all on
Monday.